---
id: RRS-000
title: Rating & Review Module - System Overview 
sidebar_label: Introduction & Overview
slug: /RRS000
---

## 1.  Introduction  
___  

### 1.1  Purpose  

The purpose of this section is to define the workflow that is used in
the Rating & Review System module.  

These are the documents that relate to the Rating & Review module;  
-  **Introduction & Overview** _(this document)_  
-  [**Add / Maintain Rating Criteria Definitions**](RRS001)  
-  [**Add / Maintain Rating Scores & Reviews**](RRS002)  

These documents should also be used as reference when adding a rating for a
specific party (Employee/Contractor, Customer, Supplier, Financier &
Legislator) and viewing or editing rating & review records for these parties.

### 1.2  Terminology & Conventions  

The documents in this section use the following terminology.  

| **TERM**                   | DESCRIPTION                                                   |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                   |                                        |
| **MS SQL**                        | Microsoft SQL Server                                                   |
| **SEMS-App**                      | Sense-i Enterprise Management System. (MS Windows Desktop Application) |
| **SEMS-User**                     | A person who has been assigned a user code and has the necessary security to log onto the  SEMS desktop application. |
| **Review Rating**                 | The individual rating given to a specific Party for a specific job / review.                        |
| **Summary Rating**                | The average of the cumulative review ratings.                         |
| **Review**                        | Evaluation of service / conduct of a Party where a rating is assigned to indicate relative merit.  |
| **Interval**                      | Calculation Interval used by the system to calculate the **Summary Rating**.<br /> New interval(s) created after;<br />-  Blacklist <br />-  Lift Blacklist<br />-  "Referred" status (3-star)<br />The Summary Rating score is reset with each new interval.<br />Subsequent individual rating scores are used to calculate the summary rating.  |


### 1.3 Intended Audience  

The documents in this section are intended for SEMS-Users that have access to the Rating
& Review Module.  

### 1.4 Module Scope  

A rating and review system allowing SEMS-User(s) to Add, View and maintain
Rating Scores for individual **parties** in the SEMS-App.  

The Rating & Review System enables SEMS-Users to capture multiple rating
scores for individual Parties based on review(s) / job performance.  

The system calculates the **Summary Rating** based on the **cumulative average** of the individual **Scores**.  

An **Audit History** is stored in the database.  

## 2.  Overall Description  

### 2.1 Operating Environment  

Operating environment for the various parts of the system is as listed
below;  

**Database**
-   MS SQL Database.

**SEMS Application**
-   Runs on Microsoft Windows OS *(Operating System)*.

### 2.2 User Class and Characteristics  

The system will support **SEMS-Users** who have access to the **SEMS Rating & Review module**.

### 2.3 User Abilities

**SEMS-User**  
The new Rating & Review System enables the SEMS-User to:
-   **Review a Party**
    -   Add Rating reference.  
    -   Add review period (Start & End date).  
    -   Add a note (optional).  
    -   Apply individual rating.  
    -   Select criteria for rating score.  

-   **Blacklist** a Party.

-   Clear Blacklist status.

-   Save & Activate review.

-   View Rating information.

### 2.4 Assumption Dependencies  

The Rating System is developed to work within the **Employee, Customer, Supplier, Financier and Legislator** Modules of the SEMS-app.  

### 2.5 New Functions  

The SEMS-app has been adapted to enable SEMS-users to;

-   Access functionality to Add and Maintain the definitions for the
    **Rating Criteria** under each of the pre-defined 8 categories;
    -   Referred
    -   5-Star
    -   4-Star
    -   3-Star
    -   2-Star
    -   1-Star
    -   Blacklist
    -   Lift Blacklist

:::note  

The functionality to define and maintain Rating Criteria is accessed
by selecting;  

**Employee** _(and /or Customer, Supplier, Legislator)_ / **Settings** / **Rating Criteria.**

:::  

-   **Summary Rating** band to relevant party grid showing **Summary Rating Value** and
**Description**.

-   Visual depiction of summary rating on the relevant party header
    panel.

-   **Review** tab on the relevant party detail page.

-   **Review screen** (to maintain Rating scores for each individual
    party)

-   New tables developed;
    -   Master table to hold the rating definition.
    -   Rating Definition Table.
    -   Rating Criteria Definition Table.
    -   Party Review tables.
    -   Relevant Party Rating Criteria tables.

### 2.6 Product Perspective  

The database stores the following entities relevant to this module.  
**Employee / Customer / Supplier / Legislator / Financier.**

Rating Information added, maintained and viewable by SEMS-user.

-   Relevant Party List **- Summary Rating** band
    -   Summary Value
    -   Rating Description  

**Party detail review page** _(View rating and review information entered
    by selecting the **Reviews** tab)_
-   Display **Summary Rating** Score  
-   Visual summary and percentage bars  
-   Display **Rating Description**  
-   Blacklist status _(where applicable)_
-   **Review Information** (list of existing reviews) in grid form;
    -   Reference
    -   Start Date
    -   End Date
    -   Notes
    -   Review Status (Capturing, Inactive, Active, Cancelled)
    -   Interval _(system generated - used to reset rating score after
        Blacklist / Clear Blacklist status)_
    -   Is Latest (checkbox)

-   **Individual Rating Information**
    -   Rating Value
    -   Rating Description

-   **Summary Rating**
    -   Summary Value 
    -   Summary Description

-   **Audit** (history)
    -   Edited by (SEMS-user)
    -   Edited on (Date)  

**Review Screen -** use this screen to Add / Edit / View / Delete the
    review.

-   Rating **Reference** **\***
-   Start Date **\***
-   End Date
-   **Note** field
-   **Referred** option
-   **Rating Score**
    -   1-Star
    -   2-Star
    -   3-Star
    -   4-Star
    -   5-Star
-   **Blacklist** option
    -   Blacklist *Party*
    -   Clear Blacklist *status*
-   **Rating Criteria** tab
    -   **Select** column (checkbox)
    -   **Reason** column
-   **Change record status** (Set Active / InActive / Cancelled)

**\*** *Compulsory fields.*

Current status of the record, and audit details are also displayed.  

**This is the end of the Introduction & Overview.**  
___
