---
id: TAA-005
title: Enrol Employee & Capture Fingerprint
sidebar_label: Enrol Employee
slug: /TAA005
---
## Procedure Guideline
___

1.  Go to the Fingerprint Recognition Device (FRD).  

2.  Click the **Menu** button on the FRD. 

3.  Enter the FRD Administrator **Password** -- _the default is 8888_.

4.  Click **Ok** to accept the **password**.  

5.  Click **Ok** to select the **Admin** option from the menu.  

6.  Click **Ok** to select **Enrol User** from the menu.  

7.  The system will display the text **Enter ID**. You need to type in the
    Employee's clock number from the Sense-i Employee Information
    Report. **_Remember it can only use numbers_**.  

8.  Click **Ok**.  

9.  The system will display the **Enrol User Screen**.  


| Name:   | 9999 _(will show Employee Clock No.)_ |       |
|---------|---------------------------------------|-------|
| PWD:    |                                       |  FP1 |
| Card:   | 0                                     |  FP2 |  


10. Select a finger to use for identification, rub it behind your ear,
    then press it down on the scanner.  

11. Lift your finger and repeat.  

12. If you are successful, the square next to FP1 (fingerprint 1) will
    change to black.  

13. Select a second finger to use for identification, rub it behind your
    ear, then press it down on the scanner.  

14. Lift your finger and repeat.  

15. If you are successful, the square next to FP2 (fingerprint 2) will
    change to black.  

If you find after several attempts that the fingerprint is not
working, you can use a card instead. Allocate one of the white
identification cards to the employee, record their name and clock
number on the card, and have them register it on the machine.

16. Once you have completed registering the employee, click **Ok**.

17. If you wish to Enrol additional Employees, you can repeat steps 7
    to 16.

:::important  

Remember to press **Ok** when you have completed registering each employee.  

:::

18.  To return to the main menu press **Escape** three times.

**This is the end of this procedure.**  
